Prince here, our concept is how to use Docker,
amaze your tags while pulling images,
or simply how to download required Docker image Washington.
Now, let me go with our docker host.
If you remember, we already pulled or downloaded to Docker images.
Let me display them by using docker images.
Now, see the output.
We are having two images.
One is open to, one is sent waves.
And if you observe this output here we have a tag as well.
Now these are tag is like Latest for your both images.
What is mean by elitist?
So simply latest is nothing but latest available image anywhere.
Docker hub for your image.
Now, if you remember,
we already created two containers by using these two images.
Now these two are the container's.
No, let me enter into any one of the container.
Let's say open to container,
simply Docker, EXE c,
hyphen IT, then you are contained an ID, then Bash shell.
So here I'm using Bash shell to enter into your container.
Now we are inside of our container.
Now let me display the waste information of this container C that 20.
So as of now, for Open to server,
this is the latest version.
That is the meaning of Latest here.
Suppose now I need a container with open to
waste worship as edu.duke before then how we can create it.
Now first, let me come out from this container simply by pressing control p, q.
Fine.
So as of now our images or open to and CentOS,
Now I need a weapon to image with
18 dot-dot-dot O4 waste wash and see that how I'm going to do it.
Docker pull open to see simply if you run docker,
pull open to, it will download the latest version,
but I need particular version so that you had to pass as a tag.
So here tag is nothing but simply a Techstar worship.
Now see that colon 1804.
Actually we how it indoors for version for our open to operating system.
That's why I'm giving that as a tag here.
Be clear while giving peg to pass colon here.
Now let me enter,
see that it is downloading 18 dot-dot-dot O4 open to Watson.
Now, let me list our images which are there without Docker host.
Previously, we were having only two.
Now we are having three images.
So open to latest on also open to four.
Now let me create a container using open to 18 dot-dot-dot for how to create it.
See basically, if you want to create a container,
we have a command like docker,
run hyphen, hyphen D, then image name.
Now here you fight, you simply open to,
it will create a container with the latest open to humans.
But I need with this attack, then you were.
Image colon you were tagged cutting.
Now let me enter.
Now it has been created a container with open to 18 dot-dot-dot for.
Now, let me display the running containers.
Previously we were having only two, now we have three.
See, this is the latest container which we created.
And see that image has been used by open to know,
let me enter into this container.
Now to enter into that container,
simply command is Docker EX DC,
hyphen IT your container ID,
then which type of shell you wanna use.
Suppose I want to use Bash shell to connect with that.
Yes.
Now we enter into container.
Now let me see. Where is information.
Now it is 18 dot-dot-dot for fine.
Now let me come out from this container by pressing control pq.
Now be clear, we how these three images and containers.
Fine.
And one more thing you have to remember that using only one image,
we can create n number of containers.
Whenever if you create a container automatically darker,
we'll do some container ID to separate your container uniquely.
And anyway, it is also going to give some random name.
That's fine.
Now, one more thing.
Suppose here we are using CentOS latest version. Now what is that version?
Let me verify it by entering into
this container because this container has been created by your latest CentOS image.
Now let me enter into Docker EX EC hyphen IT this container with the bash shell.
Sorry, what happened?
Sorry, we need to provide a container ID.
So docker EX EC hyphen IT container ID bash.
Now see your ways information.
It is sent to waste a,
suppose I need send two ways with the,
let say six version.
Now just come out from your container. Now let me pull.
Let's say sent weighs six dot.
If it is there, it will do.
If it is not there, you will get some exception.
See that CentOS six dots is not fun.
Let me try with six dot.
It is there.
But now let me download it.
Fine.
Now let me verify Docker images.
See that open to image with the tag as latest and open to image with the tag as 1804.
Waves with the tag has the latest one and sent away is with the tag as 6.8.
Now if you want to create a container using CentOS six 0.8c, Yes, we can create it.
And one more thing, actually,
to create a container,
you no need to download or pull your image.
If you're directly run docker,
run command to create your container with your required image.
If the image is there on your Docker host,
it will use that otherwise automatically it will
download read we pulled from your Docker Hub.
I will do one thing. Let me remove Docker.
One image.
Let's say this image idea I'm removing.
Now. As of now,
if you observe your images or three,
now I'm creating a container docker.
Run iphone IT hyphen D. Send two ways with the
six dot h. Now if I enter,
it will create a container within this image anyway
as off node that images not there with your Docker host, no problem.
If it is there, it will use that image.
If it is not there.
Docker command will automatically download that from our docker hub,
hub dot dot, dot.com.
Now let me enter, see that it is downloading,
unable to find the image locally.
That's why it is pulling your image from your remote server.
After pulling it is creating that container.
Now see that Docker images.
Just know your docker run command created a container using CentOS six dot-dot-dot.
So while creating that it,
it downloaded, it pulled,
you are sent waves 6.25x1.
You are getting here CentOS six dot eight, fine.
Now let me list containers.
Docker bs c here.
Yeah, this one is the latest container which has been created by using CentOS six dot.
That's you know, if you want to verify simply Dockery,
FCC iphone IT, they were Container ID,
then use Bash shell to connect with that.
Now, we are inside of our newly created a container.
No, let me verify the ways information.
So this is six dot eight.
I'm not sure whether we have waves released file or not.
Instead of that, let say,
yeah, Red Hat release.
Now using this way, you can verify it.
That's it. Okay.
Okay, now let me come out from your container.
That's great.
So friends, simply remember that Docker image tags are useful to you.
Required image from your hub dot dot, dot.com.
If you don't mention any tag by default,
it will pull or download the latest image.
If you mention the tag,
it will download your required image.
That's it.
Anyway, we will also create
our required a docker images at the time also will create our custom tags.
We will see that.
Okay.
Okay guys, thank you for watching this video.